for 2015 Yamaha is releasing an all-new
side-by-side vehicle The Wolverine
r-spec
this is pretty exciting news for those
of us that have been waiting for the
Japanese manufacturer to release a
sporty-er side-by-side and Travis
Holland's from Yamaha is going to tell
us more about it
when we develop the the Wolverine we
were looking at different markets
different areas of the the industry we
kind of broke them into three segments
one is kind of the sport market really
high performance you know more like a
trophy truck then the utility segment
had a multi-purpose like your pickup
truck you know something you can use
every day and then the third category is
a recreational category and that's where
the Wolverine fits into really addresses
the need for somebody that is trying to
get through aggressive terrain wants to
do some trail riding but wants to do it
very comfortably and you know wants to
have a lot of confidence in what they're
doing when they're out there while the
Wolverine shares styling cues with the
Viking keep in mind that this is not a
Viking and is directed at an entirely
different market the recreational
segment is more about just enjoying
nature being out in the trails you know
going through aggressive terrain having
a good time you know whether that's
hunting with it or just trail riding or
just exploring it's really just
something that you do for fun
and that's what's so great about the
Wolverine and it was so much fun to
develop it and addressing some areas
that we felt or no other model in the
market addressed you know such as
comfort and just overall confidence when
you're riding out there ok so it's not a
Viking but it does look a lot like a
Viking so what sets it apart separates
the Wolverine from the Viking it's
really everything you know the chassis
is totally different the suspension is
totally different the engine character
is actually different you know we really
focused on making it the best off-road
best trail riding most comfortable
machine that you could buy specific for
what we did where's the biking that was
all about getting the job done you know
we have big cargo beds and lots of
occupant capacity
you know and just really making sure
that we addressed both needs so totally
completely different machines and you
know I think if you driving both you'd
really understand and possibly the most
important question that we had and you
probably will also is what sets the
Wolverine apart from the rest of the
competition in the industry the
wolverine really was a fun project for
us because we really went out drove
every model that was out there from all
the competitors we talked to all the
customers you know that we could and we
really identified some key areas that we
felt that they really wanted that was
very important to the customers and we
felt like no other machine in the market
met those needs so for us you know
that's a great thing because that allows
us the opportunity to develop a new
product that really can address the true
needs of the customers something that
they're really looking for the first
thing right off the bat was just comfort
you know we wanted this to be the most
comfortable machine on the trail didn't
matter if you were driving more
aggressively sporty or spirited riding
or if you just wanted to cruise and go
slow
not only the driver but also the
passenger the other element to the
Wolverine that really sets us apart is
our on command system which is how we
what we call our four wheel drive by
having a physical knob that you can
select and the gear on gear engagement
of the four-wheel drive system you can
actually fully walk down the drive
system so what that does for us is when
you're say going down that hill with it
with all-wheel engine braking those
tires are now physically locked together
with the engine so all four tires now
are providing traction and control as
you're descending down a hill some of
the other models out there they only
have engine braking or hold back on the
rear tires so you can imagine if you're
in a very slippery situation you can
kind of start getting the back end
sliding around and you lose that overall
confidence so by locking down the full
wheel drive system and having complete
control over it you know exactly how the
machine is going to react you know
exactly what's going to happen when you
give it brakes or you give it throttle
and that just instills confidence in you
the other element is just you know the
off-road terrain ability of the machine
the 26 inch Bighorn tires the the ground
clearance the full length underbody skid
plates those are welded on steel skid
plates so when you're appear
crawling over a rock or a log you can
slide over those obstacles now and you
can actually continue on the trail some
of the other models out there
competitive models they don't have that
so you have gaps or big holes underneath
the Machine that a rock can get hung up
on or a tree stump to get hung up on so
design elements in place really gives
you a lot more confidence when you're
out on the trail and so you know that's
what we're really going after we want
you to be as comfortable as possible and
you want to have the most confidence
that you can possibly have when you're
out in the trail after speaking with
Travis in depth about the Wolverine it's
easy to see where it's going to fit in
the industry why it's different and how
it's going to be a great success with
new life blood flowing through Yamaha
side-by-side veins we are excited to see
what's in store for the future like the
video you just saw do you want to see
more click the subscribe link and add
the dirt tracks channel and you're going
to see a whole lot more great content